[PM-32687] Create Claude skill to add more item types easily (#19301)
bitwarden/clients: .claude/skills/cipher-type-planner/SKILL.md

- `apps/web/src/locales/en/messages.json` _(web)_
- `apps/desktop/src/locales/en/messages.json` _(desktop)_
- `apps/browser/src/_locales/en/messages.json` _(browser)_

**Linked fields (if applicable):**

- `libs/common/src/vault/enums/linked-id-type.enum.ts`

**Autofill (if applicable — only if `$0` is `browser` or `all`):**

- List relevant autofill files from `apps/browser/src/autofill/` only if the type supports
  autofill

**Restricted item types (if applicable):**

Restricted item type enforcement is used across all clients. Include files for `$0`:

_Always included (shared):_

- `libs/common/src/vault/services/vault-settings/vault-settings.service.ts` - Restricted types service

_Include if `$0` is `web` or `all`:_

- `apps/web/src/app/admin-console/organizations/policies/policy-edit-definitions/restricted-item-types.component.ts` - Policy configuration UI
- `apps/web/src/app/admin-console/organizations/policies/policy-edit-definitions/restricted-item-types.component.html`

_Include if `$0` is `browser` or `all`:_

- `apps/browser/src/vault/popup/components/vault/item-more-options/item-more-options.component.ts` - Restricted type checks

_Include if `$0` is `cli` or `all`:_

> - `apps/cli/src/commands/create.command.ts` - Restricted type checks

Reviewer: Updated! [6140328](https://github.com/bitwarden/clients/pull/19301/commits/6140328c4a70fc2716d27767880032c98c6d841c)

---
name: cipher-type-planner
description: Plans the creation or modification of a cipher type (vault item type) across the Bitwarden clients monorepo. Use this skill when a user wants to add a new cipher type (e.g., BankAccount, Passport), modify an existing cipher type, or asks about what is needed to implement a cipher type. DO NOT invoke for general vault or cipher questions unrelated to adding or changing a cipher type.
user-invokable: true
argument-hint: "<cipher-type-name> - e.g., BankAccount, Passport"
---

# Cipher Type Planner

Plans the full implementation of a new or modified cipher type across all layers of the Bitwarden
clients monorepo, the server repository, and the SDK repository.

> **Reference documentation:** `docs/cipher-types.md` in the repo root.

Reviewer 2: ⚠️ I don't see this file in the repo nor the pull request.

## Workflow

### Step 1: Gather Requirements

Read the reference documentation at `docs/cipher-types.md` to refresh context on the five-layer
model stack, container classes, UI components, and cross-repo dependencies.

Then ask the user the following questions (use `AskUserQuestion`). Adapt questions based on what
the user has already provided.

**Required questions:**

1. **Type name and value** - What is the cipher type name (e.g., `BankAccount`) and integer value
   (next available after 5 for SshKey)? If the user hasn't specified a value, suggest the next
   available integer.

> 2. **Fields** - What fields/properties does this cipher type have? List each field with:

Reviewer 2: ⚠️ Let's refactor

```suggestion
2. **Fields** - What are the cipher's properties? Each property must contain:
```

   - Field name (e.g., `routingNumber`)
   - Data type (string, number, boolean)

>    - Whether it is encrypted (most vault data fields should be)

Reviewer 2: ⚠️ Let's simplify

```suggestion
   - Encryption required?
```

>    - Whether it is required

Reviewer 2: ⚠️ Let's simplify

```suggestion
   - Required? 
```

- `libs/common/src/vault/models/api/ssh-key.api.ts` - API model pattern
- `libs/common/src/vault/models/data/ssh-key.data.ts` - Data model pattern
- `libs/common/src/vault/models/domain/ssh-key.ts` - Domain model pattern
- `libs/common/src/vault/models/view/ssh-key.view.ts` - View model pattern
- `libs/common/src/models/export/ssh-key.export.ts` - Export model pattern
- `libs/common/src/vault/models/domain/cipher.ts` - Container switch patterns
- `libs/vault/src/cipher-form/components/sshkey-section/` - Form component pattern
- `libs/vault/src/cipher-view/sshkey-sections/` - View component pattern

### Step 3: Build the Plan

Write a comprehensive plan to the plan file. The plan MUST include all sections below.

---

## Plan Output Format

### 1. Overview

- **Cipher type name:** (e.g., `BankAccount`)
- **Integer value:** (e.g., `6`)
- **Feature flag:** (e.g., `pm-32009-new-item-types`)
- **Minimum client version:** (e.g., `2026.3.0`)
- **Fields:** Table of all fields with name, type, encrypted (yes/no), required (yes/no)
- **Supports autofill:** Yes/No
- **Supports linked fields:** Yes/No
- **Supports import/export:** Yes/No

> ### 2. Cross-Repository Prerequisites

Author: Yes, Section 2 lists Prerequisites. There's an important step between the server and the SDK: generating the API bindings. The SDK's [bitwarden-api-api](https://github.com/bitwarden/sdk-internal/tree/main/crates/bitwarden-api-api) crate is auto generated form the server's OpenAPI specs. There are two approaches:
  1. Local generation: You can run scripts locally to generate the bindings from the server's OpenAPI specs. I used this approach to get everything working end-to-end during development, but it's not the recommended workflow.
  2. CI (recommended): Merge the server PR to main, then a job on the SDK repository [(update-api-bindings)](https://github.com/bitwarden/sdk-internal/blob/main/.github/workflows/update-api-bindings.yml) is
  triggered to automatically generate the bindings. This is the approach we'd want to use in practice.

Regarding additional skills, what will be the best approach for this considering there are other dependencies outside the clients?

> ### 2. Cross-Repository Prerequisites

Reviewer 2: This SKILL.md should assume all prerequisites are already done by a human — it shouldn't include them. As written, I think they confuse Claude into trying to verify each prerequisite exists, when the human should have already completed those steps. 

IMO these should collapse into a single confirmation question: "Have all prerequisites been completed?"

What are your thoughts on that approach for the first iteration of this `SKILL.md` @SaintPatrck??

> ### 2. Cross-Repository Prerequisites

Author: Thanks @theMickster @SaintPatrck

| ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `apps/desktop/src/vault/app/vault-v3/vault-items/vault-cipher-row.component.ts` | Add a `CipherType.<Type>` case to the `copyFields` computed signal, returning `CopyFieldConfig[]` entries. This is the most modern pattern — uses a computed signal rather than getters. |

#### Critical Warnings

- **CLI has no copy menu UI** — do not add copy-related i18n keys to the CLI locale.
- **Only expose fields that should be copiable** — not every cipher field needs a copy action. Check
  with product requirements for which fields get copy buttons.

---

## Key Rules

- **No new encryption logic** in the clients repo (CLAUDE.md critical rule)
- **No TypeScript enums** - use const objects with type aliases (ADR-0025)
- **No code regions** - refactor for readability instead
- **Tailwind `tw-` prefix** required for all CSS classes

> - **Never log or expose decrypted vault data**

Reviewer 3: These are almost verbatim copies of rules already present in `CLAUDE.md`. Let's remove them since they'll already be in context.

- Follow the SshKey implementation as the canonical template
- Use `@linkedFieldOption` decorators if linked fields are supported
- View models must extend `ItemView` and implement the `subTitle` getter

> ## References

Reviewer 2: ♻️ I think we need to reconsider these references (I know we have them in many places in our Claude things _hoping_ that Claude will read them). 

From Claude itself after a local pull request review

<blockquote>
No. Claude will never read those.

  - The three ADR links are external URLs. Claude Code doesn't browse to URLs unprompted during skill execution — it would need an explicit WebFetch instruction to do that, and the skill doesn't include one.
  - The SshKey commit hashes are useful to a human reading the skill, but Claude won't run git show b18fa68acc unless told to. The skill already tells Claude to inspect the SshKey files by path in Step 2, which is what actually works.
  - docs/cipher-types.md is already referenced in the workflow steps where Claude will read it (setting aside that it doesn't exist yet).

This section is written for a human audience, not for Claude. That's fine if that's the intent — but if it's meant to influence Claude's behavior, it needs to be actionable instructions, not a bibliography.

</blockquote>

Author: Yeah I noticed kept using old angular syntax and code styles, so I made it update the skill with the new learnings and it added that reference. I'll  remove it
